[IMP] Helpdesk: track and bill time (#12890)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/advanced/track_and_bill.rst

======================================

Before a customer can be invoiced for support services, the *Track & Bill Time* features **must** be
enabled on each **Helpdesk** team individually.

Enable track and bill time on a helpdesk team
---------------------------------------------

To view and enable the *Track & Bill Time* features on a **Helpdesk** team, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams`. Then, select a team from the

> list, or create a :doc:`new one <../../helpdesk>`. This reveals a team's settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
list, or create a :doc:`new one <../../helpdesk>`. This reveals a team's settings page. From here, check the box next to *Time Billing*.
```

menu beneath.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-enable-settings.png
   :alt: View of a helpdesk team settings page emphasizing the track and bill time settings.

.. _helpdesk/configure-service-products:

Configure service products
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When the :guilabel:`Time Billing` feature is enabled, a new product is created in the **Sales** app

Reviewer: Here, you call it `Time Billing`, but call it `Track & Bill Time` earlier. I can infer that they're the same thing, but I added a line above to help make that clearer. Up to you on adding that in!

Then, fill out the quotation form with the customer information.

Go to the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the quotation and click :guilabel:`Add a product`. Then,
select the *prepaid services product* configured in :ref:`the steps above
<helpdesk/configure-service-products>`. Update the :guilabel:`Quantity` field with the number of
hours.

After updating any other necessary information, :guilabel:`Confirm` the quotation. This converts the

> quotation into a |SO|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quotation into an |SO|.
```

Create and send an invoice for prepaid services
-----------------------------------------------

After the |SO| has been confirmed, click the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` button. This opens a

> :guilabel:`Create invoices` pop-up window.

Reviewer 2: super annoying and I don't agree with it, but the popup is actually labeled "Invoice(s)". Should we just ignore it and keep your doc as-is?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9dfe0454-9ebb-49e0-8325-39685d5ce46b)

If no down payment is collected, the :guilabel:`Create Invoice` type can remain as
:guilabel:`Regular Invoice`. If a :doc:`down payment <../../../sales/sales/invoicing/down_payment>`
is collected, choose between either :guilabel:`Down payment (percentage)` or :guilabel:`Down payment
(fixed amount)`.

> When the necessary information has been entered, click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Reviewer 2: This said Create Draft for me (see screenshot above). How about you?

Click :guilabel:`Add a Line` to record a new entry. Select an :guilabel:`Employee` from the
drop-down menu, and record the time spent in the :guilabel:`Hours Spent` column.

Repeat these steps until all timesheet entries have been recorded.

.. image:: track_and_bill/track-bill-record-timesheet-hours.png
   :alt: View of the timesheets tab on a helpdesk ticket.

Create an invoice for hours tracked on a ticket
-----------------------------------------------

> After it is determined no new timesheet are needed, an invoice can be created and sent to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no new timesheets are needed, then create an invoice and send it to the
```
